So supervised learning algorithms learn to
predict input, output or X to Y mapping.
And in the last video you saw
that regression algorithms,
which is a type of supervised learning
algorithm learns to predict numbers out
of infinitely many possible numbers.
There's a second major type of supervised
learning algorithm called a classification
algorithm.
Let's take a look at what this means.
Take breast cancer detection as
an example of a classification problem.
Say you're building
a machine learning system so
that doctors can have a diagnostic
tool to detect breast cancer.
This is important because early detection
could potentially save a patient's life.
Using a patient's medical records
your machine learning system tries to
figure out if a tumor that is a lump is
malignant meaning cancerous or dangerous.
Or if that tumor, that lump is benign,
meaning that it's just
a lump that isn't cancerous and
isn't that dangerous?
Some of my friends have actually been
working on this specific problem.
So maybe your dataset has
tumors of various sizes.
And these tumors are labeled
as either benign,
which I will designate in
this example with a 0 or
malignant, which will designate
in this example with a 1.
You can then plot your data
on a graph like this where
the horizontal axis represents
the size of the tumor and
the vertical axis takes
on only two values 0 or
1 depending on whether the tumor
is benign, 0 or malignant 1.
One reason that this is different from
regression is that we're trying to predict
only a small number of possible outputs or
categories.
In this case two possible
outputs 0 or 1,
benign or malignant.
This is different from regression
which tries to predict any number,
all of the infinitely many
number of possible numbers.
And so the fact that there
are only two possible outputs is
what makes this classification.
Because there are only
two possible outputs or
two possible categories in this example,
you can also plot this data
set on a line like this.
Right now, I'm going to use two
different symbols to denote
the category using a circle an O
to denote the benign examples and
a cross to denote the malignant examples.
And if new patients walks in for
a diagnosis and
they have a lump that is this size,
then the question is,
will your system classify this
tumor as benign or malignant?
It turns out that in classification
problems you can also have more than two
possible output categories.
Maybe you're learning algorithm can
output multiple types of cancer
diagnosis if it turns out to be malignant.
So let's call two different types
of cancer type 1 and type 2.
In this case the average would
have three possible output
categories it could predict.
And by the way in classification,
the terms output classes and
output categories are often
used interchangeably.
So what I say class or
category when referring to the output,
it means the same thing.
So to summarize classification
algorithms predict categories.
Categories don't have to be numbers.
It could be non numeric for example,
it can predict whether a picture
is that of a cat or a dog.
And it can predict if a tumor is benign or
malignant.
Categories can also be numbers like 0,
1 or 0, 1, 2.
But what makes classification
different from regression when
you're interpreting the numbers
is that classification predicts
a small finite limited set of possible
output categories such as 0, 1 and
2 but not all possible numbers
in between like 0.5 or 1.7.
In the example of supervised
learning that we've been looking at,
we had only one input value
the size of the tumor.
But you can also use more than one
input value to predict an output.
Here's an example,
instead of just knowing the tumor size,
say you also have each
patient's age in years.
Your new data set now has two inputs,
age and tumor size.
What in this new dataset we're going to
use circles to show patients whose tumors
are benign and crosses to show the
patients with a tumor that was malignant.
So when a new patient comes in, the doctor
can measure the patient's tumor size and
also record the patient's age.
And so given this,
how can we predict if this patient's
tumor is benign or malignant?
Well, given the day said like this,
what the learning algorithm might do
is find some boundary that separates out
the malignant tumors from the benign ones.
So the learning algorithm has to
decide how to fit a boundary line
through this data.
The boundary line found by the learning
algorithm would help the doctor with
the diagnosis.
In this case the tumor is
more likely to be benign.
From this example we have seen how
to inputs the patient's age and
tumor size can be used.
In other machine learning problems often
many more input values are required.
My friends who worked on breast cancer
detection use many additional inputs,
like the thickness of the tumor clump,
uniformity of the cell size,
uniformity of the cell shape and so on.
So to recap supervised learning
maps input x to output y,
where the learning algorithm learns
from the quote right answers.
The two major types of supervised learning
our regression and classification.
In a regression application like
predicting prices of houses, the learning
algorithm has to predict numbers from
infinitely many possible output numbers.
Whereas in classification the learning
algorithm has to make a prediction of
a category,
all of a small set of possible outputs.
So you now know what is
supervised learning,
including both regression and
classification.
I hope you're having fun.
Next there's a second major
type of machine learning
called unsupervised learning.
Let's go on to the next
video to see what that is